And now for our first module, the primer,
I wanna ask a question, what is code?
There are a few ways that
you could answer this.
And I think depending
on your vantage point,
you would be correct more than likely.
But for instance, if I asked you
just to give you a hint of how I'm
thinking about this,
if I said what is a computer?
Well, somebody could say well that's
a device that you basically can
interact with and do meaningful things.
And I would say you're correct,
but what is a computer?
In the most basic, absolute basic sense,
a computer is nothing more than a bunch
of switches that turn on or off.
And so it's the kind of quantum level,
if you will, especially now.
When you think about computers and
you go beneath kind of the hardware and
the software,
what you have is a bunch of
switches turning on and off.
And so, when we think about that
in terms of code, what is code?
Well, the answer is, it's characters.
It's a string of characters,
it's a bunch of
strings, and so
when we look at JavaScript,
Java, Python, Go, Rust whatever.
You are writing text entering
in characters to create
strings that then get
interpreted by your compiler,
by your run time to do something
meaningful, but under the hood.
When we start from the vantage point
of code is nothing more than strings.
This allows us to start
taking a much broader,
more kind of generic approach to how
we think about any code as a whole.
And so with that said,
we are going to step through a few very,
very basic JavaScript functions.
So the question is how much do you
need to know to be rapid to be read?
Well, my approximation is
there's a couple functions
that it's helpful to know
that we'll talk about.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to just start to assemble
these into kind of interesting
ways that does interesting things.
But most of what I'm doing here,
I would say it most is
level 200 JavaScript.
So for instance, if I wanted to replace
a character in a string,
how would we do that?
Well, the easiest way, and
I think in a lot of cases,
the most performant way is with
Array.split and Array.join.
So I'll save the slide for,
when my seven-year-old wants to
learn how to program, but,
imagine we have a train.
And we go train.split,
on this particular car.
What do we have?
Well, now we no longer have a train,
we just have some individual cars here.
But then I can join them back
together with this flat car.
And so what do we have now?
We have a new train that
is now joined by flat cars,
so train.split, train.join, so
you are already well on
your way to being read.
The next one array.map and so
on array.map is pretty
fantastic in that we
take an array or
a collection of something.
We iterate over it and we perform
an operation, so imagine you have
a bunch of hanging shirts and you want
to map over them, and you want to fold.
And so now at the end of this you
have a new array of folded shirts,
so you take one collection you
transform it into a new collection,
this is level 100 stuff.
And probably one of my all-time
favorites is array.reduce,
and we're going to use
this one really heavily.
So imagine you have a bunch of strands and
you want to reduce them or
combine them into a single rope.
And so strings that reduce, and
we're just introducing individual
strands intertwining it into the rope.
And when it's all said and
done instead of having,
in this case five strands,
we have one rope.
So in the context of where we're going,
imagine you have five code snippets.
We can reduce that into
a single code snippet.
And so
let's see what this looks like in code,
so this is the primmer.
And we're going to go into
the rapid primer start.
So you can go to this URL here or
if you are on the GitHub page,
you can just click on
that rapid primer start.
All right, so the first thing
we wanna do is I have a title,
how can we remove spaces in a string?
Well, how we can do this
is if you remember,
we have using array.join,
array.split, array.join.
We can go remove spaces, so
we're just going to create a new function.
That's going to take a string, and
we're just going to go string split.
And up at the top here, I have just went
ahead and taken these basic characters,
created constants for them, so
that we're not doing magic strings.
And we're just gonna go
space.join and empty, and so
now this will take in turn this into,
this is kind of a quasi Pascall case,
but what I can do, remove space and
pass in the title.
So, super, super basic, but let's go and
just put this in here, and we're gonna, so
you see here, we remove the spaces.
Now the next question is
how can we replace a space
with a different character in a string?
So we want to replace this
space with something else,
so we'll go const replace, space, and
let's go ahead we'll go with sub, so
this is what we want to substitute
our space with and so, splits, space.
Join sub, okay, and
let's go with const SnakeCase.
And so in this case,
what we want to do is we want
to replace the space with an underscore.
So we'll save this,
let's go down and paste this in.
And so now you can see that,
not true SnakeCase because,
it's uppercase but,
I think we get the idea.
Now let's do one more extension of this,
what if we want
to replace any character
with a different character?
And so we're going very, very small
here and incrementing on this, but
I wanna illustrate almost comically
this iterative thought process.
So now, we're just gonna go replace, and
we'll go s for string, we'll go targ for
targ, sub and then we're going
to go s split, targ, join, sub.
And let's go ahead and
what I'd like to do is go and
let's go kabob case.
And we are going to replace,
In this case let's go we'll
pass in SnakeCase and
we want to replace the underscore
with a hyphen, okay?
And here we go, so
now we've done some very,
basic string manipulation
which is going to prove
to be really really,
really important in a little bit.
So on one hand it's like if
the question is like, can I do this?
If this make sense and I hope it does.
This is very basic JavaScript
we can build on this ideas and
we are going to go somewhere
pretty neat with this